A/B
===



Team
----



### David Lu

david@velluminous.org

206 257 8023

http://work.vellum.cc



Description
-----------



**Concept**

My proposed app is called "A/B." It's a polling space for gathering second
opinions about things *we might buy* or *have recently bought*. A/B polls have a
uniform format, made up of:

-   a framing question: "Which of these shall I buy?" "Which of these shall I
    keep?"

-   2 possible answers: A or B. Each has a product image, a caption, and a vote
    button.



**Scenarios**

*In-Store Purchase*

Tracy is trying on dresses in a Target store. She's here alone, while on a lunch
break from her day job. She wants the opinion of friends, and has narrowed her
choices down to two items: a Missoni for Target Sleeveless Sweater Dress and a
Jason Wu for Target Poplin Dress in Navy. She adds a poll with A/B, substituting
a couple self portraits taken in the dressing room mirror for the regular
product images from target.com. She makes the poll private, so only her friends
can see it. As she changes into her work clothes, she sees her phone buzzing
with notifications. Four of five friends so far preferred the Missoni. Done and
Done. She purchases it a few minutes later.



*Recent Purchase*

Sally is assembling her ideal living room on a budget. She purchased two Target
Home Medallion Rugs (in cream and indigo), but only intends to keep one. She
carefully places the cream rug in her living room, photographs it, then does the
same for the indigo. She flips between the two photos on her phone and realizes
that she could use a second opinion. So she posts an A/B poll, substituting the
photos she just took for the regular product images on target.com. Within an
hour, she sees a dozen or so votes, from both friends and strangers, favoring
the cream rug. She returns the indigo one the next day.



*Future Purchase*

Sam is shopping for a camera for his daughter. Her birthday is in a few months.
She's been shooting with a point-and-shoot and is ready for an upgrade. He knows
what he'd like to spend, and sees that two DSLRs, a Nikon and a Canon, fit his
budget. Sam posts an A/B poll asking for help deciding. Within a few days, a
handful of thoughtful, informed comments appear on his poll. He taps into
commenters' profiles and sees they are camera experts who don't mind sharing
their expertise. He follows them for future reference, and adds the Nikon to his
target.com wishlist.



Value for Everyone
------------------

Everyone in this system gets something out of participating.

-   **Poll Authors** - get a second opinion

-   **Poll Voters** - get to express their opinion. They may feel a sense of
    altruism in helping others have a broader point of view in their purchasing
    decisions.

-   **Target**

    -   gets *demand data* on the products in Target's inventory (which products
        are most wanted, which products are preferred regionally)

    -   gets improved *related product clustering (*"customers frequently
        compared *this* product to *that* product")

    -   gets to identify customers of influence, based on number of followers
        and votes

    -   gets to identify expert users, based on commenting activity



Additionally, unlike many "like economies", this is a completely open data
platform. Everyone in the system can look at the data of anyone else in the
system.



Thank You
---------

Many thanks for considering this proposal!
